---
Title: Home Page
Weight: 52
---

:experimental:   ////this is here to allow btn:[]syntax used below

:imagesdir: /images/en/user

= Home Page

The home page is the first page that is displayed to you
post-authentication. The home page has various elements that can be used
and configured such as Dashlets, Dashboards and the Sidebar.

== Dashlets

Dashlets are user-configurable sections displayed on the home page that
give you a quick overview of your records and activity immediately after
login. This is particularly useful for sales and support led teams as
this reduces the number of clicks required to view/modify data.

Dashlets can be dragged/dropped within the home page. You can add
dashlets by clicking the 'Add Dashlets' link on the home page.

image:24Add_dashlets.png[title="Add Dashlets"]

Clicking on the 'Add Dashlets' link on the home page will open up the
Add Dashlets popup which allows users to select from a multitude of out
of the box dashlets.

image:25Add_dashlets.png[title="Dashlet Selection"]

To add one of the dashlets, simply click on the dashlet link. This will
add the dashlet to the user home page. The popup will remain if you add
a dashlet, to allow users to add multiple dashlets. Once you have added
your required dashlets, you can close the popup.

image:26Dashlet.png[title="Dashlet"]

You can modify dashlets by clicking the pencil icon on the desired
dashlet.

image:27Modify_dashlet.png[title="Modify dashlet"]

Clicking the pencil icon will display a popup. This popup will contain
all of the options that are configurable for the dashlet.

image:28Configure_dashlet.png[title="Configure dashlet"]

Once you have made the required changes in the dashlet configuration
popup, you can click btn:[Save] to apply the changes, or btn:[Cancel] if you wish
to revert to the current configuration.

{{% notice note %}}
Some dashlets require the home page to be reloaded. For dashlets
that require this, you will be notified.
{{% /notice %}}

== Dashboards

Dashboards are new in SuiteCRM. These are configurable per user and can
be added/removed similar to dashlets. To add a dashboard tab, you can
click the 'Add Tab' link on the homepage.

image:29Add_tab.png[title="Add tab"]

Clicking on the 'Add Tab' link on the home page will open up the Add Tab
popup which allows users to specify a name for the tab and also how many
dashlet columns are required. You can opt for one, two or three columns.

image:192Add_tab.png[title="Add tab"]

Once you have specified the details for the dashboard tab, you can click
btn:[Save]. You can also click btn:[Cancel] to undo any changes. Once you have
saved your changes, the Dashboard Tab will be added and will display on
the tab list on user Homepage. You can then add Dashlets to your new
dashboard tab.

image:31New_tab.png[title="New tab"]

If you wish to delete the dashboard tab, you can click the 'x' icon.
This will prompt you to confirm the deletion and then subsequently
remove the dashboard tab from your profile only. 

{{% notice note %}}
*Suite Dashboard*
is the standard dashboard tab which cannot be removed. You can however
configure the dashlets that display on that dashboard tab.
{{% /notice %}}

== Activity Stream

The Activity Stream is an excellent way of keeping track of your
colleague's interactions with SuiteCRM. By default the Activity Stream
displays recent updates for the Opportunities, Contacts, Leads and Cases
modules. Your organisation's Facebook and Twitter feeds can also be
included in your Activity Steam dashlets if desired and this can be
configurable by an Admin user.

image:32Activity_stream.png[title="Activity stream"]

You can also comment about an update within the Activity Stream by
clicking on the Reply button on the right side of the post.

image:33Reply.png[title="Reply to post"]

Your posts can also be deleted from the Activity Stream by clicking on
the Delete button.

image:34Delet3.png[title="Delete post"]

Your comment will appear under the original post and will also be
timestamped.

The Activity Stream is also a useful tool for internal messaging within
your organisation, it is possible to send a message that will be
broadcast to all users in your network. To do this type your message in
the text field and click btn:[Post]

image:35Activity_post.png[title="Activity Stream post"]

Your colleagues will see this message and will be able to respond by
clicking on the Reply button on the right side of the post.

image:36Reply.png[title="Activity Stream reply"]

Their response will appear under your post, again with a timestamp.

image:37Reply_view.png[title="Post reply"]

