---
weight: 14
title: "Extension Framework"
---

= 14. Extension Framework

== Introduction

The extension framework provides a means to modify various application
data inside SuiteCRM. For example it provides a way to add or modify
vardefs, scheduled tasks, language strings and more. In general a folder
is provided in `custom/Extension` (the exact path depends on the
extension). This folder is then scanned for files which will be
consolidated into a single ext file which SuiteCRM will then read and
use. In this way it is possible for developers to add a new file to
affect the behaviour of SuiteCRM rather than altering existing files.
This makes the changes more modular and allows the easy addition or
removal of changes. Additionally, because these files are all
consolidated it means that there is no affect on performance of checking
a (possibly large) number of files. This is only done when performing a
repair and rebuild in the admin menu.

== Standard Extensions

List of standard SuiteCRM extensions:

[cols="20,20,20,50",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Extension Directory |Compiled file |Module |Description
|ActionViewMap |action_view_map.ext.php |  |Used to map actions for a
module to a specified view.

|ActionFileMap |action_file_map.ext.php |  |Used to map actions for a
module to a specified file.

|ActionReMap |action_remap.ext.php |  |Used to map actions for a module
to existing actions.

|Administration |administration.ext.php |Administration |Used to add new
sections to the administration panel.

|EntryPointRegistry |entry_point_registry.ext.php |application |Used to
add new entry points to SuiteCRM. See the chapter on
link:../entry-points#entry-point-chapter[Entry Points].

|Extensions |extensions.ext.php |application |Used to add new extension
types.

|FileAccessControlMap |file_access_control_map.ext.php |  |Used to add,
update or delete entries in the access control lists for files.

|Language |N/A^link:../extension-framework#fn-langNote[1]^ |  |Used to add, update
or delete language strings for both modules and app strings. See the
chapter on link:../language-strings#language-chapter[Language Strings].

|Layoutdefs |layoutdefs.ext.php |  |Used to add, update or delete
subpanel definitions for a module.

|GlobalLinks |links.ext.php |application |Used to add, update or delete
global links (the list of links that appear in the top right of the
SuiteCRM UI).

|LogicHooks |logichooks.ext.php |  |Used to add, update or delete logic
hooks. See the chapter on link:../logic-hooks#logic-hooks-chapter[Logic
Hooks].

|Include |modules.ext.php |application |Used to register new beans and
modules.

|Menus |menu.ext.php |  |Used to add, update or delete the menu links
for each module.

|ScheduledTasks |scheduledtasks.ext.php |Schedulers |Used to add new
scheduled tasks. See the chapter on
link:../scheduled-tasks#scheduled-tasks-chapter[Scheduled Tasks].

|UserPage |userpage.ext.php |Users |Unused

|Utils |custom_utils.ext.php |application |Used to add new utility
methods.

|Vardefs |vardefs.ext.php |  |Used to add, update or delete vardefs for
a module. See the section on link:../vardefs#vardefs-chapter[Vardefs].

|JSGroupings |jsgroups.ext.php |  |Used to add, update or delete
JavaScript groupings.

|Actions |actions.ext.php |AOW_Actions |Used to add new WorkFlow
actions.
|=======================================================================

== Custom Extensions

Interestingly the extension framework can be used to add new extensions.
This allows you to create customisations that are easily customised by
others (in a similar manner to, for example, how vardefs can be added -
see the chapter on link:../vardefs#vardefs-chapter[Vardefs]).

To create a custom extension you simply add a new file in +
`custom/Extension/application/Ext/Extensions`. 

This can be given a name of your choosing. Our example will use +
`custom/Extension/application/Ext/Extensions/SportsList.php` and will
look like:

.Example 14.1: Adding an entry point entry
[source,php]
----
<?php
$extensions["sports_list"] =  array(
                "section" => "sports_list",
                "extdir" => "SportsList",
                "file" => 'sportslist.ext.php',
                "module" => "");
----



Now when a Quick Repair and rebuild is run any files in `custom/Extension/application/Ext/SportsList/` will be consolidated
into `custom/application/Ext/SportsList/sportslist.ext.php`. 

On it’s own this
file will not do anything but you are now able to write custom code that
checks the consolidated file rather than having to worry about searching
for customisations.

The language extensions are treated specially and, as such, aren’t
compiled to a single file.link:../extension-framework#fnref-langNote[↩]
